# Journal MDPI Data: An Open Access Data Artefact
The advantages of Java Runtime Environment (JRE) Java Virtual Machine (JVM) tiered execution compared to JVM interpretive execution are well recognised, but more research is needed to understand their performance differences relative to modern workloads. While interpretive execution offers benefits like adaptability, simplicity, portability, reduced complexity/costs, and more straightforward debugging/profiling, just-in-time compilation excels in execution time efficiency. However, contemporary questions regarding interpretive execution's performance advantages over tiered execution, specifically concerning power and energy consumption, still need to be answered. 

This paper describes an extensive dataset encompassing a rich collection of variables that capture JRE JVM performance behaviour. We developed the dataset to analyse the runtime behaviour of 198 JRE JVM variants. The dataset is comprehensive regarding its associated variables. It comprises categorical variables that encode the JRE JVM version, the compiler versions used within the build toolchain of the JRE, JRE JVM execution modes, and garbage collector variants, for example. In addition, the dataset contains many numerical variables, capturing microarchitectural behaviour such as branch misprediction rates, L1 and L2 data cache behaviour, for example, and an extensive collection of power and energy consumption variables, with factors capturing average, standard deviation, min, and max characteristics associated with system voltage, current, power, and energy consumption behaviour. 

The richness of the variables included within the data artefact introduced within this paper will allow for more nuanced assessments of JRE JVM performance beyond the typical null hypothesis significance testing techniques and, in particular, beyond single factor analysis. The data artefact offers numerous opportunities to analyse the JRE JVM from a multi-factor perspective, as well as from a multi-variant perspective. The dataset variables will allow interested researchers to undertake analyses regarding its principal component structure; the dataset can be used to construct multiple regression models and has enough observations to build machine learning models such as neural networks.

